Good afternoon, everyone.
My name is Saumitha Leelakrishnan.
I'm a technical specialist,
Global Emissions Center of Excellence team at Cummins.
I'm here to share with you a story,
which is a journey that is involving
a very interesting example of wider adoption of R
for business applications.
And this story, and surprisingly,
starts with a deep breath.
If all of you could take a deep breath with me,
if that's OK?
Every day, we are breathing, and we need fresh and clean air.
We at Cummins recognize it.
Cummins leads at Inverse in innovative data-driven
solutions to enhance environmental stewardship
through emissions analysis and sustainable practices.
Cummins, a Fortune 120 company, a 100-year-old history company,
historically a diesel engine manufacturer,
embraces stricter emission standards over the years
and has now broadened its portfolio
to include diverse energy sources.
This company's investment in clean diesel and natural gas
and currently into electrified products and hydrogen
and fuel cell technology is commendable.
So in this talk, I'll be sharing how partnering with R
has helped the global product compliance team at Cummins
help deliver solutions for our customers
that are safe and lead to a cleaner environment.
Even if you have a different data set, some of the lessons
that I've learned in emissions analysis
and environmental stewardship will definitely
improve your workflow.
So let's dive in.
So step one, grasp your needs.
So for all of you in this room to understand
the needs of this specific project,
I think I would have to give a picture of what our team does
and what is the data.
So we are a functional excellence team
who are responsible for creating tools and processes
for onboard diagnostics and emissions compliance data.
So what is onboard diagnostics?
They are systems and algorithms to detect failures
that adversely affect engine emissions.
Out of it, this data is very prominent,
the in-use monitoring performance ratio
that allows us to verify if the diagnostics are actively
making decisions.
So this onboard diagnostic data, along with a zillion
of engineering data that gets collected from the engine units
out there in the real world, through telematics and data
logger devices, gets uploaded to the cloud.
So how do I begin?
So I utilized extract transform load to begin with.
So for some of you here who are wondering about the CTL term,
it is the process of combining data from multiple sources
and moving into a large centralized repository, often
called a data warehouse.
ETL uses a set of logical rules to clean and organize
the data and prepare it for storage, data handling, data
analytics, and mission learning.
So why did we use ETL?
High volume data sets necessitate ETL
for the telematics and the data logger
data that gets collected from the various engine units which
goes to the cloud.
The onboard diagnostics data has multiple disparate sources,
data lake, Power BI models, relational data dictionary,
Excel, and many more.
Data cleaning and enrichment using ETL in this example
is to pick the latest image data for each engine unit
and associate it with its equipment manufacturer's
details.
So now that I've identified and utilized ETL,
the next step will be to move this data
to a centralized repository.
So to achieve this step, I worked with the analytics
engineering team to read the data.
So I worked with them to identify and set up
Databricks jobs to automate the execution of data processing.
So the next step will be to read this data
from the delta lakes, which are nothing
but an open source storage layer.
So for that, I utilized PySpark, which is actually
nothing but an API for Apache Spark,
to read the data from the delta lake
and move it to a centralized repository, which in this case
was a SQL database.
So why did we bring data to SQL?
Any guesses?
So because it is a relational data.
So this relational data is organized
into three different or multiple different engine
platforms, like light duty, medium duty, and heavy duty.
And then as you see, it's further
segmented into model year.
So different model years have its own engine families,
which are grouped based on fuel type, transmission, et cetera.
And each engine family can be applicable
to various applications, be it a truck, shuttle bus, motor coach,
RV, street sweeper, ambulance, like n number of applications.
And then each application has numerous engine serial numbers.
For those of you who can see the last one,
I think it's ESN, which stands for an engine serial number.
So awesome.
The data has arrived.
So it's time to unlock its potential.
What kind of insights and magic do you
want to extract from this data?
How do you envision this data transforming
into powerful, actionable insights?
So for that, you would have to move to step two.
Use your needs as a compass.
So what were the primary needs?
So we have to move from merely just describing the data
to making inferences and drawing conclusions.
Secondly, embracing machine learning algorithms
to extract meaningful insights.
So with these primary needs in mind,
the idea was to build a full-blown R Shiny web
application and host it in Parsit Connect app
so that the 600-plus engineers who
have to look into this data globally
will be able to utilize it.
So the web application was built and which
was first able to highlight the applications that
required attention, then population distribution
of the engine serial numbers based
of your application type, duty cycle, equipment
manufacture details, and so on and so forth,
and multiple interactive visualizations,
and then an offline workable export as well.
So how was this possible?
So how did we boost?
So I leveraged some of these packages
here to make the analysis truly immersive.
So now we have a web application.
Engineers can use it.
They can derive insights from it.
They have action items to work on.
So what is the next step?
Is that all there is?
No, we would have to advance and adapt.
So in this example, I would like to say
that the engine serial numbers that
have been identified to have presumably not accumulated
enough of that IOMPA ratio I mentioned earlier,
you need some key attributes like duty cycle
and application so that the engineering teams can
go and analyze the data.
So how do I find the duty cycle?
So before then, what's a duty cycle?
So duty cycle is a definition of history of speed and load
conditions over which an engine is
operating over a period of time for any selected application.
So I wanted to find the duty cycle with the engineering data
that was available in hand with me.
In that case, I jumped into using
the simplest and the popular unsupervised machine learning
model, which is k-means clustering.
I utilized this Python library for it.
So I worked with subject matter experts
to identify five engine features based on the characteristics
to determine the duty cycle.
So it was idle percent, torque curve percent,
motoring percent, key cycles per hour,
and drive cycle average percent.
So once I identified these engine features,
how I used it in the model is that how this k-means
clustering model works is that it first randomly assigns
a data point to one of your clusters,
and then you compute the centroid of each cluster.
Then there is reassignment of your centroid of each data
point to the nearest centroid of your cluster.
And this continues going until there
is no changing of your clusters happening.
Thus, finally, you're able to identify your duty
cycle of each of the engine serial numbers out there.
So that will give an insight on what conditions
do you think those engines were not
able to accumulate enough of the IOMPR ratio.
So the predictive modeling is complete.
So they have some actionable insights.
So is that all there is, or is our compass taking us further?
Looks like it is.
Because the next step is generate and analyze reports.
Proactive reporting anticipates issues and opportunities
in a timely manner so that you can make informed decisions.
So in this case, I utilized Quattro
to generate monthly and quarterly reports
for each engine family, which will highlight
the applications and the duty cycle for which the engine
units were not able to accumulate enough of the IOMPR
ratio that we were talking about earlier.
So Quattro came in very handy.
And these are some of the highlights
packages that I was able to utilize in Quattro.
So NITAR, so that you can integrate your code, text,
and the graphs.
Because the report had a lot of not just text.
It had tables, graphs, interactive visualization.
So CableXTRA was used to bring in pretty tables.
And then WebBot for interactive HTML widgets.
And so that these reports were not
And so that these reports were not static,
you could go back to the Passit Connect app
that we had published earlier, which
is going to have many details, wherein this report is
something high level, right?
So the engineers and the product compliance managers
can have a way to interact directly with your app
and through your report as well.
So why did we use Quattro?
Quattro seamlessly integrates code, text, and graphs.
Quattro's batch processing automates generation
of multiple reports seamlessly.
Because at a single point of time,
you have 60, minimum 60 different engine families
that you would have to generate the reports for.
And it smoothly integrates with Git for version control.
And then it enables automated report generation.
So now it takes us back to the last, but not the least.
This is the last step as we wrap up
this whole journey and pipeline, which
is monitor and maintain.
As long as we are able to set up this process,
go on seamlessly and automatically,
that's when we will be able to reap the best of the benefits.
So a monthly and quarterly data refresh
was set up using ETL jobs and scripts.
So that the reports get generated monthly and quarterly.
The reports included average IUMPR computation ratios
for each engine family based off your unicycle application,
equipment manufacture details, so on and so forth.
And this report included clear actions
directed to the engineering teams who
are working on fine tuning the system
performance of the engines.
So that you can deduce emissions.
And these were generated as PDFs and available in the RConnect
apps and also in a secure SharePoint location.
And this is the glimpse of the whole journey.
So embracing the right tools and technologies,
you will be able to build sustainable solutions.
So I also wanted to share my data reflections
on this journey.
Take the plunge.
Stepping out of the ordinary and taking bold initiatives
drives impactful results and growth.
Bring the productive synergy.
Integrating the best of tools and methodologies,
be it R, Python, Databricks, SQL, Quarto, and many more,
creates comprehensive solutions.
Proactive automation is paramount.
As demonstrated by this Quarto report example,
this exemplifies and seamlessly integrates efficiency
into your process.
This talk, I hope, will benefit the data science community
into understanding a real world example of how
to harness the power of both R and Python
when you are faced with solving a challenging problem
and drive innovation within your organization.
Even if you are a data scientist, data engineer,
developer, researcher, some of the lessons
that I've learned and shared with you
will definitely help your workflow.
And I would like to thank the partnership with Parsit,
because partnering with Parsit has helped the global product
compliance team at Cummins deliver solutions
for our customers that are safe and lead
to a cleaner environment.
A special thanks to our Global Emissions
Center of Excellence team, Product Compliance
and Regulatory Affairs at Cummins,
and a big shout out to the brilliant brains
at Parsit who have been continuously supporting us.
And last but not the least, thank you, everyone,
for your participation and attention today.
Thank you.
I will be happy to take any questions if you have.
Yes?
Thank you, Sumita.
We do have a couple of questions.
Yes.
By the way, this was outstanding.
Thank you.
So what tools do you use to move between R and Python?
For example, Reticulate or something else?
No, so when I think going forward, I might be.
So I was kind of convinced in this con
with some of the tools and packages
and even thinking about Parsitron,
like bringing an integration to both the worlds, right?
But in this case, I had to clearly use Visual Studio
Code to use anything on Python.
And I directly use the Parsit Workbench for anything on R.
But going forward, and for Quarto,
I was using RStudio.
So I was completely convinced with Parsitron yesterday
because, as you see, how complicated,
so many things you would have to do just
to achieve some results.
But then the results are sustainable, right?
So I went into three different environments, basically,
for this project.
But going forward, I think I'm going
to embrace a few things, for example,
like Parsitron and others.
Did the results from the k-means analysis
that you did, did that end up in Connect at one point?
Yes, yes.
Yes.
The k-means data, which is for each engine serial number,
we were able to identify UDCYCLE.
So that data, I was taking back to the SQL itself
and relationally connecting with all of the engine serial
numbers so that, in real time, the RConnect app
can read that data back.
And this is real time.
So the data refresh is kind of, though it is sent monthly,
for the amount of data that we had to get from the cloud.
But then anything that is up to date in the back end
is live in the RConnect app.
Awesome.
There's another question here.
How does the Parsit ecosystem help with data transparency?
Data transparency.
I'm also having some struggling with what that would mean.
So Parsit ecosystem, in fact, the data transparency.
So can you a little bit expand?
So what?
Yeah, I think, for example, you have your data
that you capture through ETL into your SQL Server that
gets into Connect, for example, and other products.
How easy is it for them to see that data that is in SQL?
How clear it is for them to be able to see that?
How?
I think we did not have any disconnect or gap yet.
So Parsit ecosystem was able to be very, very compatible
with bringing cluster clear idea to the respective people
in terms of the engineering insights,
or even the regulatory insights, or even to the decision makers
on what this data speaks about.
So I did not at least experience any gaps there.
So Parsit was able to deliver what I envisioned,
and even what the regulators and the product compliance team
envisioned very transparently to the whole engineering
community.
Well, thank you so much.
And that's all the time we have for questions.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, thank you, everyone.
We'll take this.
Thank you.